[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: In terms of how I feel
about Ember's big shining strength.
It's that the decisions
they've made in terms of.
The decisions that have been made by the
community in terms of bringing it to where
it is really are in line with the idea
that developers are expensive,
servers are cheap.
And improving productivity,
improving your ergonomics,
helping people get up and running.
Helping people get an app out there and
get feedback on it.
Facilitating the sharing of code.
Those are all first class concerns to,
particularly to businesses that
are building you know, products,
and it has proven to be a good
pattern that has grown, you know,
a robust ecosystem at this point.
It's also great to see how consistency
facilitates this interoperability.
It allows you, you know,
as someone who knows Ember to go and
look at someone else’s app, and
you know what you're dealing with.
You can help troubleshoot it,
you can give feedback on it.
There are well understood idioms that
we're all trying to align with, and
as a result, your skill set is
very portable in completeness.
It's not that you know how
to use jQuery widgets and so
you can go and immediately be productive.
And any app that has jQuery widgets,
the tool chain is the same, the templating
language is likely to be the same,
the organisation of the product
is probably the same.
It's starting to go so far as to even
have very similar deployment processes,
standardized across Ember apps because,
you know, there's a happy path that's so
easy that people can't help but
adopt it and build around it.
I love to see how great
attention has been paid
to Apps with significant complexity.
You know, speaking as a developer
of complex apps, I don't fear
that I'm going to outgrow the idioms or
the patterns or the abstractions.
Because I've been to that
down that road of the 70 or
80,000 line UI,
80,000 lines of JavaScript and
the patterns hold up.
And so I know whatever I end up setting
out to build next, you can get massive and
things still operate in the same way
things the organizational structure still
ends up being manageable all the way up.
And lastly I just wanna kind of try shine
a light on some recent adoption of ember.
A lot of companies use this for
internal and external apps.
You've definitely used
a lot of ember apps.
Like Heroku, dashboard is pretty famous.
Vine is written in ember.
>> Speaker 2: You forgot
Apple.
>> Mike North: What's that?
>> Speaker 2: You forgot Apple.
[INAUDIBLE] so Apple Music, you're saying?
Music's another app.
>> Mike North: Interesting.
And iCloud was written in Sprout Core,
which is in Ember's pedigree.
So when considering like is this tried and
tested, absolutely it is.
Absolutely.
And there's more and
more adoption you know every month.
And I promised one of the goals
here was to leave you guys with
a set of places to go if you
have questions and need help.
And first, definitely tweet me,
reach out to me.
I'm happy to try to straighten people out.
I like unsticking people and
it gives me a lot of good fuzzy feelings
to help people kind of keep
charging along and productive.
So definitely reach out to me and
look at the docs and
the guides, a lot of time has been spent
on those they are better than most.
Definitely worth the read.
Ember-twiddle is a very
interesting online coding
app where instead of using
something like JSFiddle or
CodePen where you sort of have one big
HTML thing and a Javascript thing.
Ember-twiddle will fill like yes,
six modules in alignment with
the Ember-CLI project structures.
So you can actually create you
know your router.js file and
share that as a link with people.
And one of the coolest things about it is
that gists are its persistence mechanism.
So you end up creating a gist for
this thing, which is great to have.
That in itself is very useful.
So recently it was brought into
the Ember CLI GitHub org and
the indication there is we're
making sure this works,
we're trying to adopt this is the tool of
choice, not to say other tools are worse,
but we're making sure that it is
it turns out very turns out great.
There's a website called emberaddons.com.
It's a searchable index of ready-to-go
you know turnkey functionality.
And again, the ranking structure or
the ranking rubric is very objective.
So generally, if you are looking at
something that's a nine out of ten,
it's a good chance that
that works as advertised.
Discussed at emberjs.com
is the official forum.
And it's particularly interesting
because discuss the form software itself
is an Ember app.
So it's a good place to look.
I should say it's an open
source piece of form software.
So you can actually poke
around in the code.
But it's a good place to post longer
questions where you have an example and
you're asking about a particular scenario.
And definitely sign-up for the Slack
Channel, look at the Ember-CLI Docs in
particular, if you're interested in Add
on development and extending Ember CLI.
So I hope that you guys have
gotten a lot out of this,
and just keep up to date
with the latest news.
It's a moving target and
we're very excited about what's
coming forward.
>> Speaker 3: Question.
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Anyone using it for
mobile like.
>> Mike North: Absolutely.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Mike North: So a great example of Ember
in mobile is look at the company YAPP,
Y-A-P-P.
They've done some serious ember
mobile development stuff.
And I'm actually using it for
mobile at Levanto as well.
>> Speaker 4: With Cordova
or?
>> Mike North: Yep,
Cordova it works well with Cordova.
And on desktop it works with electron and
with NWJS.
And again if you think about the other
options you have when building mobile apps
or desktop apps, you want a rich
application framework there.
And this is much closer to what
it would feel like to build
a native desktop app, an objective C or
a mobile app in Swift.
You know, it's a great foundation
to build on for anything.
Alright, are there any questions?
We're here at the end of the workshop.
Last chance.
Except that I'm available to
answer questions all the time.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 5: You showed [INAUDIBLE] is
there a release cycle?
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 5: Once a month,
once a quarter?
>> Mike North: It's once every six weeks.
And what that means is every
six weeks a new release is cut,
a new beta is sort of open.
Like in this case,
we're on 2.2 beta because 2.1 was
just released earlier this week.
And typically there will
be very clear focus
as to what's happening in
the current release cycle and
the next release cycle there will
be some sort of high level goals.
And then beyond that there's really
>> Mike North: There's little point in
planning that far ahead because,
as an open source project,
you know it's velocity
is a little difficult to
predict.
>> Mike North: All
right any questions online?
I see a question of IRC channel.
So the ember IRC channel has sort of
become way less popular due to slack
being a better sort of conversational
medium for those kinds of discussions.
And the slack channel right now has
somewhere between two and three thousand
developers on it, and you know hundreds
are on it at any given point of time.
So it's a great place to ask questions,
core team members are on it very, very,
very often.
>> Speaker 6: And
very, very, very helpful.
>> Mike North: And
they're super helpful and accessible and
they will help you sort your problems out.
So definitely don't cheat
yourself of that important
resource.
>> Mike North: All right,
well thank you guys very much for
your attention and I hope you enjoyed it.